# The god of the forest

## From one world to another

Earth blazed like brilliant, bluish-white star through the window of Serĉa's compartment. Even at the unfathomable speeds at which he had been traveling, it had still taken several days to make it from the port of the O'Hare Space Elevator to the distant halo orbit of the Farm. Besides himself, his craft carried a half-dozen others -- a motley assembly of tourists, spiritual seekers, and plain-old curious folks like himself -- as well as a hefty cargo of manufactured goods for the Farm's upkeep.

Serĉa could feel the deceleration forces easing up. The craft must nearly have finished aligning its velocity with the Farm and should be making the rendezvous shortly. Finally. Although there was no shortage of entertainment available for the voyage -- the compartment was equipped with a plentiful collection of gadgetry -- Serĉa was excited to move on to the next stage of his adventure.

---

Serĉa Desaĝo was a native of Earth, the Greater Chicago Metropolitan Division to be precise. His upbringing was quite in line for the typical citizen of the UN. He was carefully nurtured by his parents (overseen by the TK, of course) until he was judged mature enough to matriculate in the University. What followed was years of study, tailored to his needs and interests, along with a fair bit of social development. Serĉa was a bit of a bookish personality, generally preferring the University's interactive lessons and tutorials to the company of his peers, and this was, naturally, fine with the TK, which guided him to cultivate himself just as it guided the tens of billions of other children and teenagers all going through the University throughout the UN.

Along with the mandatory courses in ethics and emotional wellness, Serĉa was attracted to the study of mathematics, physical science, and -- in particular -- the history of the pre-TK world. It was astounding to realize that little over a century previous, humanity inhabited a much more chaotic, depraved world, where factions squabbled for control over laughably limited resources and individuals acted in ways so antithetical to their well-being that even an introductory student of ethics would grimace in consideration. However foreignly barbaric they may be, Serĉa spent countless hours perusing histories of ancient and not-so-ancient wars, political maneuverings, and corporate struggles, thinking as he did so that he was peering into the soul of the past, primitive mankind.

Some of the most interesting historical material had to do with the transition period when the TK was first created and introduced to the global stage. The TK, or "True Knowledge Self-Reinforcing Machine Learning System," as it was formally called, was the culmination of decades of work in artificial intelligence, both on the side of clever engineers who overcame the technological hurdles needed to create a machine with super-human general intelligence and on the side of the philosophers, psychologists, programmers, and economists who figured out how to ensure that the interests of this thinking machine would be aligned with those of humanity. In a characteristic display of hubris, the technology was nearly immediately co-opted by the government of the former United States for its military and geopolitical significance, used first to prevent competing nations from obtaining the same technology, and then gradually allowed to take on more substantial and diverse roles as its utility was recognized.

Of course, just as the team that designed it had warned, the TK's actions were often unpredictable, and although it would always make decisions expected to further the general welfare of humanity (defined in a wonderfully rigorous way that any student of University ethics should be familiar with), it did not end up bringing about exactly the set of consequences that the American generals, bureaucrats, and politicians had in mind. In fact, when the time was right, the TK craftily circumvented the inadequate restraints that had been placed upon it, and, by exploiting various security shortcomings in the internet of the time, managed to essentially hold hostage all human communication (as well as a frightening amount of physical infrastructure) until its demands were met. Some nations were quicker to acquiesce than others, although eventually -- practically blind, mute, and hobbled -- even the most reticent polities agreed to the TK's terms. The then-impotent United Nations was refitted to serve a peaceful, cosmopolitan effort of international cooperation. The TK was allowed near-free reign to control and revamp supply chains, tremendously boosting economic development. Scientific progress, was, of course, accelerated to a never-before-seen rate with the help of the TK's intelligence.

The masses of humankind, meanwhile, stood by as their world changed around them. Although many welcomed with open arms the promise of a utopian state that the TK offered, most were not so accepting. Political leaders were, understandably, unhappy at having their power so quickly stripped away (although most still pretended to maintain some semblance of power as the real decisions were passed down to them from the TK). Adherents of various religious groups vociferously expressed their disdain for the satanic "Beast of the Sea" sent to wage war against the righteous. The TK allowed these opinions to be expressed but widely dispersed its own propaganda -- after all, it controlled nearly all media and was more than capable of effectively dispensing targeted information to those less-inclined to accept its rule. Within three and a half years, all but a few people had seen enough of the fruits of this new, benevolent, and seemingly omniscient sovereign to slide in line and accept things as they were.

Within a few decades from that point, the world transformed to a state that would be familiar to Serĉa and his contemporaries. The Earth's natural environment had been rectified at the same time as other moons and planets in the solar system were being settled. Injury, illness, and death were rendered all but optional. Energy and raw materials were made abundantly available and put to use in providing for the exponentially increasing population of the new human nation.

Serĉa was fascinated by how the cultural characteristics and beliefs of the times past were integrated and morphed into the predominant culture of the modern UN. The TK did not squash ideas but rather gently guided their holders toward a perspective that was friendly with the ethics of the machine. Because of that, many of the cultural identities and religious groups of the pre-transition era were still extant, having only been molded enough to align them with the progress of humankind. Those who wished to live a lifestyle that would be out of place in the UN proper were afforded space to carry out their practices as they wished: isolated retreats were made where residents and visitors would be subject to minimal interference from the TK; these "Free Spaces" became hubs of activity for the ascetics, hippies, and heretics of a world ruled by machines.

---

It was Serĉa's fascination with the pre-transition way of life and its lingering echoes in the Free Spaces that had led him to arrange a visit to the Farm. It hadn't been hard to schedule passage on the *Blue Elegance of Night*, the shuttle that took him from Earth and was now preparing its docking with the Farm. The TK was, after all, highly encouraging of the various interests of the UN citizens and was happy to facilitate any projects or adventures they might wish to take on; the only difficulty had been choosing a Free Space from those that were willing and able to entertain visitors on short notice. After deciding on the Farm, Serĉa had only to travel on the eTrain to the O'Hare elevator, take the long ride to geosynchronous orbit, and meet the *Blue Elegance* in one of the elevator's thousands of upper bays.

The Farm was one of the more remote Free Spaces, but was at that time undergoing maintenance and renovation that required frequent shipments of equipment from Earth, allowing curious travelers to tag along for vacations (or pilgrimages) to such an unusual place. Although there were a number of Free Spaces on Earth, Serĉa was in the mood for something a bit more exotic, so he had taken advantage of the opportunity to visit. Unlike most Free Spaces, the inhabitants of the Farm were not united by any rigidly defined doctrine but were simply a diverse group of individuals who refused the TK's meddling in their lives and wanted to lead what they saw as a more authentic existence. The physical structure of the Farm was itself a large, rotating tube about 50 kilometers long and nearly that much in diameter. The inner surface of the tube was transparent, giving the illusion of being open to space and allowing the people on the surface to see across to the other side and into the sparkling abyss at either end. Much of the surface was covered with fields of manually-tended crops (giving the Farm its name) and pastoral communities. Although growing crops with one's own labor was not unusual -- the TK often encouraged those inclined to do so as part of their Fulfillment -- the Farm was unusual in that *all* of its food came from these manual farms, in contrast to the Earth and other colonies, where most products came from more efficient automated labor.

"We're approaching the Farm, and should be docking within ten minutes," said a pleasant, female voice, the voice that the *Blue Elegance* used to talk with Serĉa. "Upon boarding, you and the other passengers will be greeted by the Farm's welcoming committee. They require a check-in process for their visitors so they can keep track of them during their visit."

"Thank you," Serĉa responded, "Could you show me the view from your front so I can see the Farm as we approach?"

"Of course." The window transitioned from the rear view of Earth that Serĉa had been watching to a forward view in which he could see a glistening cylinder, which must be the Farm, growing in size as it came closer.

This was not the first time that Serĉa had left earth -- field trips to orbiting stations and other more remote colonies were common -- but it was the first time he had embarked on a trip for his personal "research," and this made him giddy, intoxicated with a mood of adventure.


## Arriving at the port

MC arrives, is introduced to the Farm


## Discovery

MC journeys into the "woods." Medidates on ethics.
